good morning dear yogiji we
congratulate you on your past birthday
we wish you health and bright
inner state and creative longevity
you are undoubtedly a seeker of Truth and
surely your personal search is not complete
how fruitful and effective is it
what more would you like to achieve
there is a lot to achieve
now this is a stage where we have
received our self-realization and one
drop is in the ocean but one drop is not enough
the ocean has to come in the one drop
so till we spread the message till many
many more people get their realization
the drop cannot become the ocean so one
drop getting self-realization is meaningless
unless it becomes a collective happening and
that is the only way the world can change
thank you could you tell from your own
sacred experience what is a Higher Love
how does anyone become an
integral part of it
it is it a blessing or does it
take conscious action to become one
till a point you can say that
you have to be aware of yourself
there has to be self-awareness so that you can
correct your wayward thoughts negative
thoughts negative thinking reacting to others
so for that there has to be an awareness
otherwise you will not know what you're saying
you may you will not know how negative you are
joining negative people so you have to have
awareness but then a transition takes place when
the Kundalini rises the transition takes place
that the consciousness of your spirit
starts coming in your conscious mind
the spirit has consciousness okay so but that
Consciousness is not in our conscious mind
what is in our conscious mind it is driven
by the ego or it is driven by the super-ego
but not by the spirit so after self-realization
when the Kundalini is able to establish itself at the Sahasrara chakra
then we become conscious of the Kundalini
or you can say the consciousness of the
Kundalini starts permeating through us so
instead of the ego the superego that was
driving us now the spirit becomes a driving
force so as the spirit is the reflection of
the Divine so we start getting Divine
experiences we start experiences Divine Life
so that Divine love is different from the love of
the ego which is possessive which is limited this
is unlimited and it doesn't stop once the flow
starts you are in that state that is a difference
tell us about certain connection of information
feeling vibration and faith in Sahaja Yoga
see faith can be blind faith also blind faith
is of no use you say I'm a Christian you say
I'm a Muslim and you have a blind faith but
you don't have any experience so unless until
the connection is there It Is blind faith but
once the connection is there then the flow starts
so the experience starts so then the faith
becomes enlightened faith that is the difference
how would you rate if possible of course the
various period of Sahaja Yoga development the
70s and 80s and 90s and zeros and the
present days
see Sahaja Yoga started in 1970 Shri Mataji started giving realisation in 1970
onwards so that was the first bloom
the first flash and people did not
understand because it was something very new
so a lot of people came out of curiosity they
didn't understand and they left so in the first
five years that is 70 to 75 it was only a handful
of people say mostly in India say about nearly 25
people Bombay 30 or 40 people Puna 15 people and
maybe in London She said there were seven hippies
she had to struggle with but after 75
Sahaja Yoga started spreading not only
in India but in all countries slowly
so there was a period from 75 to
1980 where public consciousness
started expanding about the Kundalini people
didn't even know earlier what was Kundalini
they thought it was the horoscope [unsure] which is called
Kundalini kundali and Kundalini so there are two
different things so there was a lot of confusion
so slowly slowly people accepted the idea that
there is a germinating force at the base
of our spine which is called the Kundalini so it
took about this period for this to permeate the
consciousness of the seekers because earlier
they only talked about the soul the Atma
or the Spirit but you cannot until
the light of the Kundalini falls on the spirit
the spirit doesn't come in your conscious mind
or you can say on your
central nervous system so then 1980 to say 1990
was a phase when people slowly started getting
established in Sahaja Yoga so in that establishment
they were on the foundation stones of Sahaja Yoga
they were at the foundation of Sahaja Yoga and they
were laying the foundation stones then 90 onwards
the building started rising from the
foundation and in 2000 you can say
the roof of Sahaja Yoga was laid then after 2000
onwards the new millennium was a time to embellish
the Mansion of Sahaja Yoga to decorate it to enjoy it
so when the house is built now you are ready to
live in it to enjoy it so people started having
more and more inner experiences not only miracles
but they started having the joy of Sahaja Yoga earlier
was a knowledge of Sahaja Yoga we were trying to grasp we
were trying to understand we were trying to digest
but once it we experienced it on our
central nervous system the chakras became strong
and we were able to enjoy  the glory of our Mother
we talk about life as a theater of constant
struggle between God between good excuse me
and Evil what do you think about modern balance
of powers how can those who seek to know the truth
not lose heart in this confusion role you see the
good and the evil struggle has been going on since
our creation in every tradition there has been an
epic like in India you had the epic of Mahabharata
in Greece you had the Iliad the struggle between
good and evil so in every country there has
been a tradition of evolution where we have to
overcome the evil and we have to rise above it
so in the present situation it is the same there
are forces of evil and there are forces of good we
had the first World War the same thing we are the
second World War the same thing but over a period
nations who have developed more awareness
have understood that war is not the answer
so the concept of United Nations was established
that you have a platform where you can sort out
your differences peacefully but still there
are countries who divide the collective
resolutions of United Nations and they're very
defined they are aggressing other countries but
the difference today is that these countries are
in isolation the rest of the world is on one side
like the resolution of United Nations the
countries who have passed the resolution
are on one side and these defined aggressive
countries are isolated all alone by themselves
and if they carry on the
aggression the rest of the world
will join together and they will be defeated so
there is maybe temporary gain they may feel that
they have won something but that will be very
temporary they cannot withstand the collective
like if there is one stick you can break it but
all the sticks are in a bunch you can't break it
so when the collective world on one side and
one or two countries alone on the other side
they will eventually be defeated so this
awareness has come now in the collective
that evil cannot survive there is no
place for evil in a globalized world
a globalized world is driven by collective
consciousness so it has to be the rule of
the Spirit and that time is
now gone that one Hitler or
one muslim could create havoc and
turn the world around now they cannot
many of the 90s generation since
really believed that vibrational knowledge
will change not only their lives but the whole
world nature Sahaja Yogis will enter various
international organizations and will be able to
positively influence the development of countries
and the entire planet scientists will begin to
explore and implement the methods of
sahaja yoga why did why this didn't happen and
will it ever happen no of course it has happened
you don't remember the Berlin Wall fell
you don't remember the Soviet Union dissolved
it did happen but you didn't relate
it to Sahaja Yoga you didn't relate it to vibrations
you didn't see how all the dictators all the
despots who were ruling country how all of
them got exposed how so many countries  got liberated from autocrat despots
now there's hardly any country left I mean even
Syria where you had this Saddam Hussein even he
was removed you had this terrorist organizations  Al-Qaeda and all these and their leader was
killed so it has happened everywhere everywhere
in every country you had in your in these
countries all these dictators were removed
so now hardly any country has maybe one
or two countries are left which still have
dictators but nowhere else so it is all
happening only thing is we are not aware of it
and you will see you saw that when we had this
COVID how countries helped each other they gave
vaccines they gave vaccines to poor countries
in India we gave vaccines to so many countries in
Africa who didn't have so we the world has started
sharing much more they did not only give to their
own country they shared it with other countries
so it is happening the world is changing
the world has changed drastically
this is because of Sahaja Yoga because
of the Sahaja Yogis giving vibrations
they're putting their attention to all the
problems in the world the world has changed
this would not have happened before
Sahaja Yoga people every country is only
thinking of their own people only their own
national interests nobody was thinking of
the underprivileged countries who didn't have
the vaccines so it has happened in a very big way
people are thinking collectively that's what
Sahaja Yoga is collective consciousness earlier
on everybody was only for me and my country now
they've understood that no country can survive
all alone you cannot be an island
anymore we are all in this together
so don't make that mistake thinking that it has
not happened it has happened in a very big way
but maybe you're not able to
see it that's your problem
in recent years the pandemic and the conflict
between Russia and Ukraine okay let's a little
bit change our scenery uh this conflict between
Russia and Ukraine and pandemic too have been
the main themes that have influenced
changed in the global situation
let's look at them separately in your opinion
is a viral pandemic are our creation of human hands
politics or aerial attacks on the subtle level
you see according to Sahaja Yoga all these viruses
are nothing but plants and animals
that have gone out of evolution
so as so it's not a state where there
is no viruses they are all there but they are
in their you can say they're sleeping
but as our immunity levels are going down
because of adharmic lifestyles
so our chakras getting weak especially the
Muladhara chakra the biggest attack today is
on the Muladhara chakra and this chakra is
the most important chakra because this
is the chakra that is supporting all the other
chapters that's why it's called Muladhara, adhar means the support
mul means the root so this is the support of
the entire subtle system of all our chakras
and if this chakra is weak vulnerable
abused disrespected then all these viruses
can penetrate us so it's not it's the environment
is full of viruses it has always been it is
nothing new but as human immunity because of
lack of dharma of lack of mariadas have destroyed
the first chakra chakra the Muladhara chakra so all these
viruses can penetrate as you said
the pandemic the example is a pandemic now
let's take the statistics of the countries
which had the most cases and the most
deaths in ratio of the population
so in ratio of the population the highest were in
America and in ratio of the population the least
were in India why because the
Muladhara of India's is strong
and why because of muladhara of the America is
weak they have disrespected their muladhara they
have the same sex marriages they encourage
the same-sex marriages children they can adopt
the same-sex parents can adopt children so
they have totally broken every single mariada
and so they're completely one group earlier that's
where they had the maximum AIDS and now they had
the maximum cases of the pandemic the COVID and
the maximum number of deaths so from this gives
you a perspective of the relationship between our
chakras and the outside environment be it viruses
be it germs be it any kind of toxic material the  you can say the test is they all tested at the Muladhara charka
can you tell us about your meeting with the
president of India called Mr Kovind in 19.
yes 2019 I was invited by the president
of India to inaugurate my book Gita Enlightened
which is a revised edition
for me meeting the present
situation and the present change in
the world and he was very pleased
to inaugurate the book he went through
it and we discussed many things
and I'm very thankful to Shri Mataji
for giving me this opportunity
She herself had directed this book from the very
beginning and has written many parts of it also
so this is of course very relevant to a
understanding today's situation globally
if we will return to previous question about
influence of Sahaja Yogi on this world
I think that this meeting was
very fruitful yes yes very fruitful
he got his realizations really yes yes he when
I put the photo of Shri Mataji I gave him a photo
of Shri Mataji and he put his hands and he felt
very cool vibrations so he he's got his realisation
he's a very humble man a very humble man can
you shortly remember some leaders of India who
got realization during these 50 years of Sahaja Yoga so many
so many starting with that prime prime minister
Lal Bahadur Shastri because Sir CP Srivastava has
written a book which Shri Mataji herself inaugurated
Shri Mataji had given him realisation
then president Sanjiva Reddy who had
cancer and She magically cured his cancer then
he got realization then so many ministers
in the cabinet so many governors of India so
many top people in every Department in every
aspect of life in Russia she was invited at the
Kremlin this was a time of Gorbachev and the
she gave realization to all the ministers at the
Kremlin and that is the time that they signed
a protocol with life eternal Trust and the
Ministry of Health of USSR for a joint venture
where by we will teach them about the Sahaja Yoga treatments and that project carried on under
the director Dr Alien who was the director of
the health and She gave workshops for 500 doctors
and they got the all of them got their realization
that is actually how Sahaja Yoga spread in Russia
through this Ministry of Health so a lot of work
a tremendous amount of work She has done with
leaders and with the ministers and
governors and heads of institutions
the hundreds anniversary of our beloved
Teacher and Mother is coming soon
in spite of the problematic issues we have raised
Sahaja Yoga is developing quite successfully all
over the world what would you like to wish
to all Sahaja Yogis on the eve of this great date
you know Shri Mataji always said that
as I have loved you, you should love others
so that's the only message love others as She
has loved us that is the legacy Her living legacy
in us and hundreds times to give
everyone else on the 100th birthday
thank you thank you very much
for this interview thank you Jay Shri Mataji!